My name is Cuong
I am 25 years old
I live in Ho Chi Minh city, district 2
I have graduated HCMC International university
I have worked at EdunetJSC for about 6 months, DXC technology coperation for about 2 years and mulodo company for about 1 year.
The tittle when I was working in my old compapny is Sofeware engineer.
Most of the time, I work with java and spring framework to build server side web app or Restful webservice with springboot 
I also know a little bit about frontend development, some basic knowledge about html, css, javascript. 
I used to work with some popular js framework such as: Angular, AunglarJS, ReactJs and vuejs but not too much
because I mainly focus on backend development

About my hobby, I like playing game and swimming and boxing
In my free time, I may spend time on researching new technology, learning new thing about software development 
Watch video on youtube


Daily working:
most of the time is coding
sometime, test my code, write unit test or manually test based on project's requirement
join training program, learn and share knowledge about new technology, pattern or architecture in order to start a new project
use jira to update working progress, report to project managaer
meeting,working with team, discussing about the problem and solution
when there is no tasks remaining or the tasks are less than usual, we can relax or go arround and find something to eat, enjoy happy hour
when a lot of tasks haven't been finished yet, and I feel that the deadline is coming and I cannot finish it on time, I have to work overtime to complete my task as expected.

Strong
Ability to learn from mistakes. When I make a mistake, I usually note it down so that I do not forget it and will never do it again.
Ability to mutlitask and work Overtime. 
Logical thinking


weaknesses 
I am not comfortable with taking risks. I don't usally try to do something risky. That 's why I decide to be a developer instead of startup, starting my own company for example
Spend too much effort to help someone but forgot that my tasks haven't done yet


I would like to learn more about the benefit when I joined your company
Would you mind sharing that to me?

What are your working hours?
What time do you start and end work at?
Is it possible to work With a Flexible Schedule?

About salary review, how many times per year we could be reviewed to get higher salary and promotion?

technical
IOC
DI
AOP
OOP
Java core, java 8: stream, collection, optional, default interface
SOLID
spring bean lifecycle
react vue angular lifecycle
vuex redux
gradle maven
agile scrum
sql, index, union, join, procedure, transaction, commit, rollback, insert ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE
desgin pattern
thymleaf, jsp
MVC
SPA, SSR
mircoservice
docker
AWS
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/243385/beanfactory-vs-applicationcontext
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44172261/how-spring-boot-application-works-internally